This lasagne consists of layers of rich meat sauce, creamy cheese sauce and tender pasta topped with a layer of golden melted cheese. We think it tastes even better reheated the next day.

The cheese sauce can be prepared while the meat sauce is simmering.

Preparation time: about 1 hour and 15 minutes

Serves about 8-10.

We use a 20ml tablespoon and 250ml measuring cup for all of our recipes.

Meat Sauce
1 tablespoon (20ml) oil
1 large (about 200g) onion, peeled and finely chopped
100g shortcut bacon, finely chopped
750g lean beef mince
2 medium garlic cloves, peeled and crushed
100g (4 tablespoons) tomato paste
800g canned diced or crushed tomatoes
125ml (1/2 cup) red wine
1 teaspoon dried oregano leaves
1/2 teaspoon dried basil leaves
1 bay leaf
Salt and pepper, to taste

Cheese Sauce
90g butter
75g (1/2 cup) plain flour
800ml (3 cups + 2 1/2 tablespoons) milk
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
65g (2/3 cup, firmly packed) grated parmesan cheese
Salt and pepper, to taste

Pasta
250g packet dry instant lasagne sheets (you probably won't need the full packet: the amount needed will depend on the measurements of your baking dish)

Cheese Topping
60g (1/2 cup, very firmly packed) grated mozzarella cheese
60g (1/2 cup, very firmly packed) grated tasty cheddar cheese

Meat Sauce
Heat oil in a very large saucepan over medium-high heat. Add onion and bacon and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 5 minutes, or until onion has softened.

Increase heat to high and add mince and garlic to the pan. Break up mince by mashing with a fork until no large clumps remain. Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until all of the mince has changed colour.

Add tomato paste, diced tomatoes, red wine, oregano, basil and bay leaf to mince mixture and stir until combined.

Once the mixture boils, reduce heat to about medium-low so that the mixture is simmering. Simmer, uncovered, for about 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. The meat sauce should be moist but not watery.

Discard the bay leaf. Season meat sauce with salt and pepper.

Cheese Sauce
Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium-low heat. Stir flour into melted butter and cook for 2-3 minutes, stirring constantly, until mixture bubbles. © exclusivelyfood.com.au

Remove saucepan from the heat. Add milk very gradually, stirring or whisking constantly.

When all of the milk has been added and the sauce is smooth, return the saucepan to medium-high heat. Cook, stirring constantly, for about 7 minutes, or until sauce thickens. Remove from heat.

Add nutmeg and parmesan cheese to sauce and stir until well combined. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

Assembly
Preheat oven to 180 degrees Celsius (we have the fan switched off).

You will need a 3.25 litre (13 cup) capacity rectangular ovenproof dish. Use a dish that is about 6.5cm deep.

Spread about 1/2 cup of the cheese sauce over the base of dish. This thin layer of sauce will help prevent the pasta from sticking to the base of the dish. Completely cover the sauce with a single layer of lasagne sheets, cutting or breaking the sheets to fit the shape of the dish.

Spread one third of the meat sauce over the lasagne sheets.

Cover meat sauce with one third of the remaining cheese sauce. Top with another layer of lasagne sheets. Spread half the remaining meat sauce over the pasta. Spread half the remaining cheese sauce over the meat sauce. Cover cheese sauce with a layer of pasta. Spread with remaining meat sauce then remaining cheese sauce. Sprinkle with combined mozzarella and tasty cheese.

Cover lasagne with foil and bake for 30 minutes. Remove foil and bake for a further 15 to 30 minutes, or until cheese is golden and pasta is tender. Remove lasagne from the oven and set aside for 10 minutes to allow the lasagne to firm up slightly before cutting and serving.

Store lasagne in the refrigerator or freezer.